📄 AI PDF Summarizer Pro
This is a Streamlit web application that uses Google's Gemini API to summarize PDF documents. The application allows users to upload a PDF file, get a summary of its content, and ask questions about the document.

Features
PDF Upload: Easily upload PDF files.

Text Extraction: Extracts all text content from the uploaded PDF.

AI-Powered Summarization: Utilizes the gemini-2.5-flash model to generate summaries in various styles (Concise, Detailed, Bullet Points) and languages.

Chunk-based Processing: Handles large PDFs by breaking the content into manageable chunks for summarization.

Question Answering: Ask specific questions about the PDF content and get answers from the AI.

Download Options: Download the final summary as a .txt or .docx file.

Customization: Adjust summary style, language, chunk size, and overlap settings.

Setup
Prerequisites
Python 3.8 or higher

A Google API Key for the Gemini API.

Installation
Clone this repository or save the app.py and requirements.txt files to your local machine.

Navigate to the project directory in your terminal.

Install the required Python packages:

pip install -r requirements.txt

Set up your Google API Key:

Replace "YOUR_API_KEY_HERE" in the app.py file with your actual API key.

api_key = "YOUR_API_KEY_HERE"

Alternatively, you can set it as an environment variable for better security:

export GOOGLE_API_KEY="YOUR_API_KEY_HERE"

And modify the app.py code to read from the environment variable:

import os
api_key = os.getenv("GOOGLE_API_KEY")

How to Run
From your terminal, run the following command:

streamlit run app.py

Your web browser will automatically open the application. If not, navigate to http://localhost:8501.

Usage
Upload a PDF: Use the "Upload a PDF" file uploader on the left side of the page.

Adjust Settings: In the sidebar on the left, you can customize the summary style, language, and chunking parameters.

Generate Summary: Click the "Generate Summary" button to start the summarization process.

Ask Questions: After the summary is generated, you can type a question in the "Ask Questions from PDF" section and click "Get Answer" to receive a response based on the document content.

Download: Use the "Download TXT" or "Download DOCX" buttons to save the summary.

Code Structure
app.py: The main Streamlit application script containing all the logic for the UI, text extraction, summarization, and question-answering.

requirements.txt: Lists all the necessary Python dependencies for the project.
run the program  -  python -m streamlit run app.py